[Intro]
Icy money, man, bar season on deck, man, stick boys on deck, man
Thirty two entertainment, I do this shit for the hood, blood in blood out, my clique, my nigga
What's happenin' nigga, East Atlanta we stand out, nigga Zone 6 affiliate, Bouldercrest originated
Get cremated, decapitated, you bitch
Burn one

[Verse]
A hundred bales of kush, you can't even smell me rookie
I got case to vape, I turn coke to cookie
Lookie, lookie, lookie, lookie, here comes Gucci
My bar so sound so I just overdo it
Duece is dab and painted orange on my McClaren
Green color carriage, got the favorite cutie starin'
I'm sprayin' with nobody, I'm signed with nobody
I count my own money, I make my own money
I own my own publishing, check in for a feature
I stack for my mortgage, twelve hundred for my sneakers
Reefer keep her cockin desert eagles for my people
Reefer keep her cockin desert eagles for my people
I got [?] eagles and dubs, corners and people
Them birdies your uncle didn't get
Pound cans of spinach
Flip jugs of X, liters'll let rain
Avalanche of white, a million bales of green
I said g-g-g-g-ive me a brick
Fuck a bitch, all I need is a gun and a clip
I said g-g-g-g-ive me a brick
Fuck a bitch, all I need is the motherfuckin' 6, nigga
Gimme, gimme, gimme, gimme a brick
I'ma take them down, break them down with my clique
Go in, them re-rock, them bring back
Serve them to the lame ass niggas for the stack
OJ, what's up, what's up, what's up, wait
Gucci, my grill, presses, cuttin'
Slick boy, you know they wouldn't leave
It's the S-O-I-C-Y-A-G, you see?
I-M-A-E-E, he so damn fly
Who is his stylist, the boy be wilin'
He playful on the mic, man the boy so childish
He make it cross over, move just like Ivan
Hook:x2
First you save a couple rubber bands (Yeah!)
Then you bring em back to Gucci Mane (Yeah!)
You know somebody, Shawty you the man (Yeah!)
Imma show you how to stack 100 grand (Yeah!)

Verse 1:
10 years old with a 8-ball jacket
9th grade Mack 9 got a 357
Before I bought my first 50, man I stole a Mack 11
Had to break in partner's house, First mission was successful
Every dollar to my name in my Crease Guess Jeans
Starter jacket, starter shirt, Try to take it, get murked
After school, whatever, yeah, awful lot I'm rollin'
All you gotta do is keep your next door neighbor smokin'
I'm poppin' pills and drinking off, Man I'm losing focus
Salt like a bag boy, cus I stack the groceries
Yeah I make it rain, but I feel like its promotion
Bitches tellin' other bitches 10,000 on Thursday
42 is worthy, Zone 6 is ervy
I could front ya shawty but I feel you don't deserve it

Hook:x2
First you save a couple rubber bands (Yeah!)
Then you bring em back to Gucci Mane (Yeah!)
You know somebody, Shawty you the man (Yeah!)
Imma show you how to stack 100 grand (Yeah!)

Verse 2:
Before it pop, before it dock, Get it hot then make it spin
Splash it with the H2O, Hate to say I told ya so
Two hundred forty-seven thousand, Can I owe you 4?
Long as Gucci owe ya dog, then you're truly never broke
Heavy cus I'm smoking, but I be with hoes that never smoke
Don't won't none in their lungs, but they take some in their throat
My price look like I own the boat, Damn look like I'm on the boat
Like actually I went to South America and bought this coat
Got the money? Where's the dope? Meet me at the Texaco
Backseat of my Chevy, laughing tired, Thought you'd never go
Here's the money, Where's the coke? Meet me at the Amoco
Backseat of my Bentley, Tired of laughing, Thought you'd never go

Hook:x2
First you save a couple rubber bands (Yeah!)
Then you bring em back to Gucci Mane (Yeah!)
You know somebody, Shawty you the man (Yeah!)
Imma show you how to stack 100 grand (Yeah!)
[Hook: Young Thug]
Thugga and Guwop got 100 choppas
1017 we the, Mafia
We the motherfuckin' mafia nigga
No less than 20 in my trousers lil nigga

[Verse 1: Young Thug]
Got these bitches bending over like a lineman
Make the pot, bitch straight over like a linemen
Everybody get that green, we the live men
All my slime crickets, I think we need lemons
1017 the mothafucking movement
Pipe that bitch down, I'ma duel it
The way I  throw em through  it, my arm  a Uzi
Bought a bitch a pair of shoes, and fuck her booty
Hol'  it, don't let up, these niggas can't catch with thugga no thugger
We eatin' no other
I'm chubby like my brother
I'm chubby like my mother
We take all yo goodies, and go straight to Costco
Catch up with yo bitch, and turn her into a sucka
We not overseas but you know we Russian
Picnic early, clubbin later
I'm not no candy,  but I am a jawbreaker
You think I'm gay,  I'ma send ya to meet your maker
Put a hole in yo head like you's  a piston

[Hook: Young Thug]
Thugga and Guwop got 100 choppas
1017 we the, Mafia
We the motherfuckin' mafia nigga
No less than 20 in my trousers lil nigga
Thugga and Guwop got 100 choppas
1017 we the, Mafia
We the motherfuckin' mafia nigga
No less than 20 in my trousers lil nigga
[Intro]
Gucci Mane, Gucci Mane geah
Gucci Mane, Gucci Mane uhh
Gucci Mane, Gucci Mane {*2X*}
So Icy E-N-T {*3X*}
It's the kid {*2X*}
It's the kid again {*echoes*}

[Chorus: repeat 2X]
Shawty asked me what time it is?
I said it's fifteen minutes past the diamonds bitch
An Laflare, in the cockpit, Gucci the prophet
I Met Her Ass shoppin, West coast hoppin

[Gucci Mane]
Gucci~! Niggas get Boxed In I get Cochran
Now ask Josh Avanta{?} or Egalin{?}
Lawyers, doctors, and policemen
Jewelers, Mueller, Jacob, Breitlin
My hood life Thunder the verse like lightning
My flow so frightening, it not nothin nice man
See I shoot bul-lets and you shoot dice man
It's my life man, so Im Ray Right Man
See I'm no red man, and I'm no white man
I don't Be Countin my Aston Martin
My chain be shinin, my grill be sparklin
It's Gucci darlin, now whassup shawty?

[Chorus]

[Gucci Mane]
Shawty so sexy but she be flexin
Oh he ride Lexus, ooh I fly frequent
Oh he pop bottles, then I'm not drinkin
Oh that smell stinkin, what I'm just thinkin
Its Cold outside why didn't you Mink it?
Oh boo you left it, so bitch I bet ya
Fifty dollar ring with a four dollar outfit
Talkin 'bout your man tell him why you a trick bitch
On to the next one, shawty the best one
From Houston, Texas, damn she vibrant
Crushin, blushin, I got her Ass smilin
The sunburnt eyelids, but I'm not whylin
I'm admirin, she perspirin
The way she dancin, has got me risin
Let's go kick it, let's go shoppin
Tear the mall up girl I'm not poppin

[Chorus]

[Gucci Mane]
It's Gucci baby, it's +groovy baby+
The Maybach mango, the inside gravy
My wrist game crazy, His Necc Piece Hazy
My 180, Your Chain Fugazi
The black Slim shady, I know they hate me
Ya Wife Want date me, but you won't Let Her
Cuz you know better, cause you gon' save her
I know you Pay her, Damn That Lame Boiii
But that's not playa, and that's not gangsta
My fingers got The Paper Cuts But I'm no banka
See I'm Ah Thinka, Straight Up Ship SInka
So Icy Entertainment we cuttin off Fangaz

[Chorus]
[Intro]
I'm charging 16 fever, 16 fever, nigga my price cheaper, 16 fever

[Hook]
16 fever coca-ina
X pills, bubble kush, mid-grade reefer
Hoes ride dicks, dog, but I ride Beemers
A square rectangle cost 16 fever

[Verse 1]
16 5-0, there go 5-0
I'm up 2-5 but I need 4 more
I got uncles blowing bundles, mine do numbers while I drive lambo
Off-white yayo, digital scale
Fishscale sending my pigeons by mail
Bring in my drain folks, I just bring me that caine, folks
Gucci got good dope, pills, purp and sizzurp
My workers don't move nothing less than a bizzurd
Gucci got good dope, pills, purp and sizzurp
My workers don't move nothing less than a bizzurd

[Hook]

[Verse 2]
Bricks: can't keep em
16 fever, Beemer-speakers, geek-a-meters
Misdemeanors, several subpeonas
See, I'm gonna drink up cause we just linked up
The squad been teamed up, we cutting off fingers
It's 16 fever and that's since april
My Corvette paid for, my old-school paid for
The hummer roll up? That means you assed out
And you didn't cash out, see this my traphouse
I slam fiends backs out, we push white sacks out
See this my traphouse, I slam fiends backs out
We push white sacks out, them backs get pushed out

[Hook]

[Verse 3]
I'm scraping the bowl up, I'm whipping up cake mix
But this ain't red velvet! Don't eat it, you smoke it
Your options are open: you even can snort it!
3 dollar sacks so you know you can score it
Say "you can't afford it". Yo, I can't ignore it
Well go call them dope boys, you know you feel boring!
You know that you fiending, you know that you need it
It's Gucci, I'm greedy. My niggas stay eating